---
layout: default
title: "2020-07-23 Virtual MEI Board Meeting"
---

# 2020-07-23 Virtual MEI Board Meeting

Present: Elsa De Luca, Johannes Kepper, Perry Roland, Ichiro Fujinaga, Benjamin W. Bohl, Kristina Richts, Norbert Dubowy, Laurent Pugin, Martha E. Thomae

Minutes: Martha E. Thomae

## MEC 2020

- Forwarded report about MEC 2020.
- Thanks to Anna Kijas for the conference organization (email from the Board).
- Proceedings for MEC 2020 were published today (July 23rd, 2020).

## MEC 2022

- Open call for MEC 2022.
- Open to Europe as well.
- Giving time for receiving applications, due to the unstable situation generated by the pandemic, and we will re-visit this in September.

## Questions about internal organization of the IGs and whether the Board should regulate this

- By-laws explicitly indicate that "the IG may establish decision-making processes as necessary."
- We are not modifying the by-laws. Instead, we are adding to the paragraph of the "Interest Group" page some information about:
 - IGs organize themselves.
 - Regular activity reports at MEC are expected.
 - The board supports the creation of new IGs.
 - It is ok (even encouraged) for the IG to have more than one chair (and we are leaving the term "co-chair" instead of "co-convenor").
 - And address the problem of turn over from one chair to a new one.
- We are leaving things still pretty flexible. Organization depends on each IG because each IG has different needs.

## Next MEI Board Meeting

- To be held in September or beginning of October.